---
layouts: post
title: Windows 7
tags: windows 7 ruby ansicon bat msysgit
---

Last friday I tried how war would I come, to get a mac os like development
environment in windows 7. Actually I got everything working, I have used the
development package for [msysgit](http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/) (the hack pack).
It delivers a good unix environment inclusive gcc and g++.

Then I compiled ruby 1.9.2-p0. That was not a problem in this environment. But 
I have to change all ruby/bin bat files to bash scripts to play fine with the bash.

Next I wanted to have a different console and new fonts. For the console or
terminal I choose [Console2](http://sourceforge.net/projects/console/)
it is the best console for Windows I could find. Including tabs, clear type for
fonts and many different layout functions. To setup the bash with +Console2+
was very easy. You just have to remove the +start+ command in the +git-cmd.bat+
that will be delivered in your msysgit installation.

Since I was using bash the +cls+ command was not working. I fixed this using:

{% highlight bash %}
alias clear="echo -en '\033[2J'"
{% endhighlight %}

But therefor I needed ansi color support. Luckily I found a old project that 
enables ansi colors and supports nearly every windows plattform I have heard of.
It's called [ANSICON](http://adoxa.110mb.com/ansicon/index.html). They have
recently moved to github. Just download the package and place the ansicon in
yout path. Enabling the coloring is easy. Just add:

{% highlight bat %}
ansicon -p
{% endhighlight %}

to the script or current command line session. It will enable ansi colors for
the parent process.

After having added ansi colors to my bash I could add a colored terminal with
git information. Therefor I included the +git-completion.bash+ bash file,
which is part of your source git distribution (contrib directory). It enables
code completion for git commands and branches and is very handy to add a simple
'current branch information' to the prompt. My +.bashrc+ is looking like this:

{% highlight bash %}
alias ls="ls --color"
alias clear="echo -en '\033[2J'"
source /git/contrib/completion/git-completion.bash

export PS1='\[\033[01;32m\]\u\[\033[01;34m\] \w\[\033[31m\]$(__git_ps1 " (%s)")\[\033[01;34m\]$\[\033[00m\] '
{% endhighlight %}

The final bash script looked like this:

{% highlight bat %}
@rem Do not use "echo off" to not affect any child calls.
@setlocal

@rem Get the abolute path to the current directory, which is assumed to be the
@rem Git installation root.
@for /F "delims=" %%I in ("%~dp0") do @set git_install_root=%%~fI
@set PATH=%git_install_root%\bin;%git_install_root%\mingw\bin;%git_install_root%\usr\local\bin;%git_install_root%\cmd;%PATH%

@if not exist "%HOME%" @set HOME=%HOMEDRIVE%%HOMEPATH%
@if not exist "%HOME%" @set HOME=%USERPROFILE%

@set PLINK_PROTOCOL=ssh

@cd %HOME%
@echo off
ansicon -p
bash
{% endhighlight %}

All in all, windows 7 isn't that bad in providing a working ruby & git environment.
It may took some while to set it up, but if you have no other option it's worth it.
